---
title: Use Exceptions in your backend to bubble up appropriate HTTP status codes in ASP.Net Web API
author: ely
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=931

---
Over the years, I have worked on many different types of web applications. A common theme through them all is how to communicate through the various layers of your application back up to the web browser. A typical scenario looks something like:

A browser makes an XHR request to the web server
  
The web server calls into a backend service to fulfill the request
  
The backend service communicates with a repository to pull data from a database
  
The data then gets passed back up through the various layers.

If something goes wrong in the backend, how do we communicate that back up to the web server and ultimately to the browser? I&#8217;ve been involved (and guiltily architected) systems that would return back &#8220;communication&#8221; objects through each layer. These objects would typically contain a boolean value if the request was successful or not, a message string to contain the error, and a data object that would contain the data if the request was successful. 

There are many issues to this type of communication. A lot of the context on why the request erred is lost when you boil it down to a status variable. Was the entity not found, was there a validation issue, or maybe a connection error communicating the the database? You could try to abstract this from the message, but then you are trying to match on magic strings and that has its own issues.

Another drawback is that it complicates the API of your backend service. All methods now return back this special object, and it is difficult to tell just by looking at the method what to expect when you call into it. Is the data member strongly typed to the result of the object, or do you have to worry about casting it back into what you need?

Lately, I&#8217;ve been designing my backend services in a different way, and that is using Exceptions to bubble up errors to the higher layers. Exceptions just aren&#8217;t for writing exceptional software (sorry, I just had to), but they can be used to indicate when something in your app didn&#8217;t follow the happy path.

For instance, when you write